[WHOOSH]
[CHIMES]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I'm Dr. Theresa Bullard, and
this is "Mystery Teachings."
How do we become more masterful
at manifesting our higher
purpose and potential?
Well, there is truly no
greater goal than this.
It's the great work of
coming to know ourselves
and expressing our
full potential in life.
But when we're trying
to accomplish a goal,
inevitably obstacles come up.
Is there a way to
reliably overcome
such challenges in a way
that's aligned with our highest
wisdom and purpose?
The key is to access a higher
expression of creativity coming
from the one mind of source, but
most of us aren't doing this.
The truth is most people
tend to access ideas
from things they already know.
Sometimes two people even hit on
the same idea at the same time.
There are many past examples
where such occurrence has
led to debates, accusing
one person of stealing
someone else's idea.
But often, they
independently came to it
around the same time.
How is this possible?
Well, it's because we all share
a collective consciousness
of humanity.
Ideas don't actually originate
in our individual centers
of consciousness.
They're floating around
within the collective mind,
and anyone with the right
resonance to a particular idea
may pick it up.
There may even be multiple
outlets for an idea
to come through,
colored, of course,
by each person's unique
filter and perspective.
Reminds me of the
saying that there's
nothing new under the sun.
And it's true we're
often just rehashing
old ideas with the
new flare to them,
but is there a way to
access truly new ideas?
Well, one of the scientists
who played a central role
in the quantum physics
revolution, Erwin Schroeder
was once asked how many minds
there were in the universe.
And he responded with a
reference to the Upanishads,
saying, multiplicity is
only a apparent in truth.
There is only one mind.
Meaning Schrodinger
was looking even
beyond the collective
mind of humanity
and into the one mind of
the universe or source.
And this source inspired him
with truly innovative ideas
and new ways of
looking at things.
So how can we access that
infinite, universal mind
of the source to gain truly
new insights rather than just
recycling old ideas from
the collective consciousness
of humanity?
Well, in this episode, we
dive into practical methods
for how to do this and learn
the Kabbalistic formula
for manifestation known
as the four worlds.
Kabbalistic cosmology
or creation stories
provide us deep insights
into this formula
for how all the
creative energies flow
from that initial spark
to the final result,
and it goes something like this.
In the beginning, all was
void and without form.
Everything existed within
a sea of potentiality,
and yet nothing manifested.
How does that
initial spark come in
to create the first
movement toward creation?
Kabbalah says that the
infinite source first
contracted, this source that
the Kabbalists call the einsof.
And it's hard to define.
Everything we could say about
it we can also say the opposite.
It's everywhere and nowhere.
It's nothing happening, and
yet all things are happening.
It's a sea of potentiality.
So something first needs
to happen to create
a somewhere from the nowhere.
Now, the first act of the
end soft was to withdrawal.
It restricted itself
to make space.
The 16th century master
Kabbalist rabbi Isaac Luria
called this initial act
the primal tzimtzum.
Now, tzimtzum means
to reduce or contract.
This infinite source withdrew
from a tiny, little point,
and this became the center of
creation, a reference point.
And at the same time,
it became a vessel
into which creation
could come into being.
And we can also call
this the origin.
This point is the hidden origin
within all sacred geometries.
It's not a sacred
geometry itself.
But without this first reference
point, there is no geometry.
So from here enters a
primordial sense of existence.
It's the "I AM" within
the center of being,
and this is what this
point represents.
As the light of
the source is then
drawn into this first
point, it becomes the top
of the Tree of Life, Kether--
the Crown or the I AM presence.
This single ray of light--
that first ray-- then emanates
out into the darkness.
And its direction is driven
by the will of einsof,
moving out towards
expansion and creation.
Now, similar to
how its described
in the alchemical
model, this ray of light
divides the prima materia into
the volatile and the fixed--
or we could say, into the
masculine and the feminine.
We can represent this ray
of light as a single line.
And this becomes the
second geometric principle,
expanding from a
point to a line.
But this line is
more like a vector,
meaning it's extending or
moving outward with a force.
And in physics, this
is the Big Bang moment,
is that outward expression
moving into all directions,
and it's defined by the
radius of expansion.
Now, this creates the second
point the Tree of Life.
And that second point is
Hokhmah, which means "wisdom."
And it's an outward
moving force,
driven by the will of
the divine to create.
But we can't just
have expansion.
Why?
Well, because nothing will
be formed if there's only
expansion out infinitely.
Thus, at the same time
as the light expands out,
there must also be another
aspect to balance it.
Remember, as the first ray was
sent out into the darkness,
it divided the prima into
masculine and feminine aspects.
There must be both
outward-moving and
inward-moving forces that
cooperate to create form.
Now this gives us,
then, the third point
of the Tree of Life, Binah,
which means "understanding."
And Binah is the
contractive, formative aspect
the gives the light and
life force a container.
Now we have these
three points, forming
the upper triangle, which is
the first true sacred geometry.
And with this third point, we
now also have dimensionality,
which coincides with
space time being
generated as a container
for the universe
to be formed inside of.
Now, this sequence becomes the
original pattern of creation
from source.
It starts with the one
splitting into the two,
which then forms a triad.
And in the
Kabbalistic teachings,
now we have a
pattern that works.
We have the essential
components that are all needed
and all moving
towards manifestation.
In Kabbalah, we call
this first triad Atziluth
It's the first
world of creation,
the world of the divine.
It's an archetypal
world, meaning
it's at the highest
divine plane,
and it holds the
original blueprint
that all things can
be created off of.
On this world, primordial
universes can see and hear.
It's more like an idea
in the divine mind
to bring that
universe into being.
So the very purpose
or the original intent
is contained here in this
archetypal world of Atziluth
But it's at such a high
frequency level high up
in the ethers, and
it's not anywhere near
its ultimate expression.
It's just an inkling of
an idea, as the divine
starts to express itself from
the realm of potentiality
into actuality.
How does this process
move forward from here?
Well, now that we
have this first form,
we have a foundation
to work from.
We have a blueprint.
From a sacred
geometry perspective,
the most efficient way
to continue the process
is to take this form
and duplicate it.
Well, how do we do that?
Well, we go to the edge of
that on the slope of expansion
and project a copy of this
form across that edge.
So the upright triangle is
replicated into a mirror image,
forming a downward triangle,
as the divine then pushes
its light out even further.
And it's taking what
works and duplicating it.
So here, we're made in
the image of the divine.
And this brings us now
into the world of Beri'ah,
the second of the four worlds.
It's what we call
the creative world.
Now, creation is really
starting to move here.
And that original intent
of the divine mind
comes into this realm, where
it can be seen as a vision
and reflected upon.
Before it was an inkling
with some purpose behind it,
but now it becomes clarified.
The first world is the divine
will to create and express,
so how does that now translate
into the second world?
Well, here we move from the
highest archetypal world
into an expressive world.
All kinds of
creative energy flows
towards clarifying this
vision and setting forces
in motion to fulfill it.
Now, in this world
of Beri'ah, we
talk about it as being
the realm of archangels
and the various gods and
goddesses of creation
mythologies from
around the world.
All the bodhisattvas
and [? Monas ?]
exist within this realm.
And our individuated
spirits are also
emanated out from the oneness
here, the one expressing itself
through the many.
Those top three points
of the upper triad
that are duplicated into
this world of Beri'ah
are known as Hesed,
Gevurah, and Tiferet.
This triad, again, utilizes
the masculine and feminine
interplay of expansion
and contraction--
this time, to bring the
vision into perfection.
How does this work?
Well, first, by
expanding the vision
through all possibilities,
looking at it from all angles.
It's like a major brainstorming
session, playing out
all the scenarios
and the options.
But then it must also be
contracted cutting out
any options that will not be
useful in achieving that goal.
So we have to focus in on
what aspects hold the highest
potential for manifesting
the original idea
in its purest form,
expanding and contracting
until it solidifies into
a clear vision of what's
to be manifested.
We call this the
realm of thought,
which is different from
the realm of ideas.
Ideas are precognitive,
meaning it's just an inkling.
It's beyond the tip
of our awareness,
but thoughts are more clarified
and able to be contemplated
upon.
Now, what continues to drive
this process of creation
forward is love and devotion.
Thus, we associate this
world with the divine heart
rather than the mind.
Courage, strength, and
discipline also come in here
in order to make sure
that only that which
serves the great work will
really continue on from here.
Now, all of what's
been described so far
is happening at a very
high, celestial level--
a higher state of consciousness.
So again, it needs to come
down into a more tangible level
in order to manifest.
So what happens next?
The divine again replicates
or projects its form
down into a denser
level, thus duplicating
that downward
triangle once again.
This produces the third
world, known as Yetzirah,
anchoring the spheres of
Netsah, Hod, and Yesod.
Yetzirah is known as
the formative world.
Now the creation
process is able to come
into more concrete
forms, and this world
gives us a much more
developed matrix for creation.
Now we have all the materia
and the forces needed,
and everything has
been made distinct.
So all the essential
ingredients are present here.
And what happens
at this stage is
to now take those ingredients
and put them together
into a recipe or plan.
How do we create the recipes?
Well, these are the plans or
the blueprints for creation.
And here, we figure
out all the details,
measuring how much, the timing,
exact proportions everything
that's needed to create
whatever it is that's
going to be manifested.
So in the world of
Yetzirah, things
become much more
specific and measurable.
And also, at this
level of creation,
there are a host
of angelic beings
that work to fulfill
the divine will.
They're considered the
builders of creation.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Now, this formative
world has also
been called the astral plane,
the etheric scaffolding
behind the physical, and where
the machinery of the universe
operates.
What runs and supports
the physical universe
is all constructed
and orchestrated here.
This is where mental forces
establish plans and set them
in motion.
Within our creative
process, this
is where we get to
create those blueprints
with precise instructions
to be followed step-by-step
in order to accomplish a
goal in the material realm.
We've gathered the ingredients
and devised a clear strategy
for bringing it all together.
And now that we have
the recipe, there's
only one thing left to do.
It's time to take action.
And all of these
creative processes
happening in all
those higher worlds,
they all get funneled down
into action to be manifested.
As long as the recipes in the
blueprints are clear and true,
all we need to do is now
follow through and manifest.
And this final world consists
of just one sphere on the tree
because it's just one thing
that we need to do, act.
This is the sphere of
Malchut, the physical kingdom.
This is where we live in the
cycle of life and manifest
ideas, thoughts, and plans.
The higher spheres bring
masculine and feminine energies
together to create, and
now it's time to manifest.
And this fourth world is called
Assiah, the world of action
and physical manifestation.
Everything we know about the
physical universe exists here.
We're here to experience
and create in this realm,
to be a part of the great work,
to co-create with the divine
into this physical
manifestation.
So we are the beings that
operate at this level
to follow those creative
ideas and energies down
into their final form.
When we do this in alignment
with the divine will,
all is good.
But when we're out
of alignment, that
is when things go sideways.
In the world we've
manifested, we
see a lot of corruption and
distortion, unfortunately.
Why is that?
The truth is we block the flow
of light within our minds.
We have access to
all four worlds.
It's all in our DNA.
It's how our mind is
supposed to work naturally,
and we're meant
to be manifesting
world of beauty and harmony.
But because of
programming, traumas,
and mistakes made by
us and our ancestors,
we've become blocked
in our ability
to access all four
worlds with ease.
Now, where do we tend to get
stuck in this creative process?
Well, it's different
for different people,
but to here are some of the
general patterns that we see.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Some people are really good at
taking action and seeing things
through to make them happen.
These are grounded
and practical people.
They operate
primarily in the world
of Assiah, the realm of
physicality and action.
But they might not be so good
at accessing the higher world,
where creative ideas
are sourced from.
Perhaps they rely on other
people to create the ideas
and plans, and then
they step in when
it's time to implement
and produce results.
Then there are people
who are good at action,
but where they really shine
is in the planning process.
These are the ones who
dot all the I's and cross
all the T's, and they're
good at paying attention
to the details.
They might enjoy solving
puzzles and figuring out
how to make things work.
But the sticking points
here might be coming up
with truly innovative
ideas and approaches
versus following
textbook protocols.
They might have to rely
upon outside influences
to give them ideas to run with.
These people primarily operate
in that realm of Yetzirah,
or planning.
They may be good at
making things happen,
but the visionary level often
remains out of reach to them.
Then there are those who are
good at getting that vision
and they tap into
that flow creativity,
and then they might also
be good at planning,
but they fall into
perfectionistic traps.
Perfectionists try to
think of everything,
looking at the projects
from every possible angle.
And they plan, and they
plan, and they plan,
and they keep planning.
And they look at every
scenario and think
that plan has to be perfect
before taking action.
And hence, they stop the
flow because of their fears
and attachments that
it's not perfect.
Sometimes we just need
to take action, and then
refine, and adjust, and learn
from our mistakes as we go.
Then there are the
visionaries, the people
who usually have an abundance
of ideas flowing through.
They're able to tap
into this creative field
from the realm of Beri'ah.
They access those big
ideas and visions,
and have great
suggestions for people,
and are able to inspire
others with their excitement
and passion.
But often, these creative types
have so many ideas coming in
that they tend to bounce
from one idea to the next.
And they may lack the
patience and discipline
for that linear way of working
with timelines, budgets,
and all of the structure
that's needed to organize
and implement the vision.
They'd rather tap into the
ideas and hold the vision,
and then delegate to
others to make it happen.
They're working in
the creative world,
but relying on a team to work
the energies in the lower
worlds.
And then, finally,
there are the mystics.
These are people who are able
to raise their consciousness up
into that oneness
with the divine mind
and be filled by the spirit.
They're also visionaries,
but their visions usually
take on a more global
and mystical or spiritual
nature, inspired by
the realm of Atziluth.
It's very difficult to
hold these vibrations
while also being in the
world of practicality.
And that's why most mystics
are hermits, monks, or nuns
who live away from society.
They rely on their
students or devotees
to help carry out the
visions and inspirations
that they transmit from
the spiritual realms.
Now, all of us are working in
at least one of these levels
or sometimes a
combination of them.
And what Kabbalah
trains us to do
is to be able to access
all four of these realms
and have equal mastery
of each of them--
to be able to flow light
down from that highest,
divine source and flow
it through the mind
to create a vision, plans,
and then take action.
Whether we're the
ones taking the action
or we're managing a team,
it's all being manifested
and we're guiding the
process from start to finish.
But we need access
to all four levels
to know how things
operate and to be
able to master this
process of manifestation.
And this is our birthright.
It's what we're meant
to be able to do.
But without having a
dedicated spiritual practice
and going through the process
of building your bridge
to reconnect to
that divine mind,
it's hard to truly tap into
that world of Atziluth.
In universal Kabbalah, we have
the tools to build that bridge
and raise our mind up to that
realm of unity consciousness.
And this is key to tap into
that divine realm of creation
in Atziluth.
Here, we tap into
superconsciousness, which is
beyond our ability to express.
And when we can start tapping
into this highest realm
and bring it in through
the four worlds,
that's when we'll
get back on track
with manifesting a world of
beauty, balance, and light.
We can create a world that
truly reflects heaven on Earth.
Until then, we're simply
recycling old ideas
and shuffling things
around with a new twist
rather than ideas that
are truly new from source.
This is what we want
to break through.
And when we, as individuals,
master the four worlds,
we can finally create the
life we're meant to be living.
What methods can
we use to access
these four worlds to improve
on our ability to manifest?
Well, if we look at
the tree of life,
in terms of sacred
geometry, we've
already established how
the very top is represented
by the upright triangle.
One method, therefore,
for accessing this highest
archetypal realm is to work
with the upright triangle
as a symbol.
For example,
visualize the triangle
in front of your third eye
and hold that focus point.
Or if we're working with a
three dimensional tree of life,
the triangle becomes a pyramid.
Visualize the base of
the pyramid resting
on your shoulders,
with your head
immersed inside the pyramid.
Or you can also visualize your
whole being inside the pyramid,
and the divine light
coming in from above.
These are good tools and symbols
to help us access that highest
realm of archetypal ideas.
And within the pyramid
an inkling of an idea
may start to come in, but it
remains just beyond reach.
It's difficult to grasp
exactly what it is here
because it's superconscious.
But you can feel the
energy coming in.
It may feel inspiring
and uplifting.
And you might not have
clarity of what it is yet,
but you're starting
to access the energy.
As you feel the
energy coming in,
continue this visualization
in the pyramid
until the energy
becomes saturated.
And then we want to slow it down
to come into the next around,
the realm of Beri'ah.
And when looking at the Tree of
Life, the middle two worlds--
or the two downward triangles--
together, form a square.
Or when looked at
three-dimensionally,
we see a cube on
the tree of life.
So the square or the
cube are good symbols
for working with the realms
of Beri'ah and Yetzirah.
Imagine shifting from the
pyramid down into a cube
beneath the pyramid.
In Beri'ah, we work with
the upper half of the cube.
So just float in the top
half of the cube for now.
And as we later than
shift into Yetzirah,
we'll work with the
lower half of the cube.
Now, the cube has six
faces and 12 edges,
numbers we'll also
use in this process.
Beri'ah is the realm of
thoughts and brainstorming.
So here, let's work
with the number 6
and try to identify six
different perspectives
or viewpoints to help bring that
inkling into greater clarity.
Think of the center of the
cube as containing the vision
or idea that you want
to clarify, and then
look at it from six different
angles or directions--
from above, below,
from in front,
behind, the right, and the left.
Literally move your
viewpoint around the cube
as you inspect the vision
that is forming in the center.
New thoughts will come in
to clarify what this is
and help you flesh it out until
it becomes a very clear vision.
And in the process,
continue looking
for at least six
aspects or perspectives
to create this vision.
We can ask, what does it look
like from this direction?
What is it?
How does it work?
What are all the possibilities,
and which ones are
going to be the most effective?
How can we make it practical?
Brainstorm here.
Expand all of the possibilities
without filtering anything
out just yet.
And then once
you've brainstormed,
then you can start to
contract it by asking,
which options will lead to
the best possible outcomes,
and which ones
resonate the most?
Eliminate anything unnecessary
until you come to the best form
and can really
solidify the vision.
Dial it in to the point
where you feel really excited
about it and clear.
You want to feel that it's
a worthy vision to follow,
and there's a sense
of devotion to it,
along with joy and
excitement about it.
The heart really
needs to feel it
before we move into
the planning phase.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
But once the vision
has solidified
and you're ready to figure
out how to make it happen,
imagine now moving down
to the base of the cube.
This moves us into the world of
Yetzirah, the formative world,
where we start planning.
And a good plan is
far more detailed.
In Kabbalah we talk about
there being twice as much
effort, time, and detail
in the planning stage
as compared with the
brainstorming or visioning
stage.
So here, we want to now look
for 12 aspects to this plan.
And for each of
those 12 aspects,
we want to develop them further.
This can include
timelines, the people
involved, budget, specific,
measurable goals and milestones
to accomplish along the way.
All of the details
that are needed
to bring that vision into
reality come in here.
Later, you can mine map
it out by drawing the cube
and, on the six faces, write
the major categories or aspects
of the vision.
And then on the 12
edges of the cube,
write out the 12 major
components of the plan.
Now, what's really cool about
this is that we're not only
using it as a method for
accessing the four worlds,
but this is literally creating
an energetic structure
within our mind.
The mind directs the
creative process.
So this cube becomes a
container for all the energies
to flow into and support
our manifestation.
This is ultimately what the
cube represents and Kabbalah,
a container for creation.
And this cube of creation
is a very deep study
within the
Kabbalistic tradition.
The pyramid floats above it,
but all of that creative work
is happening here in the
mind and within the cube.
All the structures
and the blueprints
are contained here in
the cube the cube is just
as important in Kabbalah
as the Tree of Life is.
It's a very powerful
symbol to work with
to support your
creative process.
Let's not take it for granted.
Now, with all of these
exotic, sacred geometries
like the flower of life,
and the Fibonacci spirals,
and so on, it's so
easy to overlook
the power of the foundational
principles of sacred geometry
that rest upon the pyramid,
the cube, and the sphere.
All of those more exotic forms
are built upon these three,
and these forms are
essential for helping
us to access the most
fundamental aspects
of creation.
So here, in this planning
stage, while looking
at the 12 major aspects of
your plan, set clear goals.
You can think of smart
goals that are specific,
measurable to track so we can
see if we're making progress,
attainable or
realistic, relevant--
meaning the goal is supporting
the overall vision--
and, finally, time based--
committing the
exact time and date
into our schedule to follow
through on each step,
meaning set dates for
when the goals need
to be accomplished
by, including when
you're going to take action
towards accomplishing them.
Now, it's important
to point out that once
the schedules in place, if we
don't meet those deadlines,
that doesn't mean we failed.
We're aiming for those dates.
But if we need to readjust
our plan or schedule,
we can do that as we go.
This gets us moving
forward, and we
need to be flexible as
we move into action.
These are all part of
the planning stage,
and it's a good
guideline to help
us know whether a plan
is complete enough
to take the next steps.
We want to see all
the major steps
that we need to follow
in order to bring
our vision into full fruition.
Finally, this brings us into
that final World of Assiah,
the realm of action.
This final step is
represented by the sphere.
So now imagine bringing
all of that energy
down from the cube
into the sphere.
I also like to set
that sphere in motion,
imagining it rotating clockwise
around me as seen from above.
And this movement creates
momentum and sets forces
in motion.
It's also good to see the
energies congealing into it
to form a more solid
form, like what
happens when a liquid
crystallizes into a lattice
structure.
Feel it, visualize it, and
see yourself taking the action
steps.
Hear the positive words the
people are saying to you,
and celebrate the success of
having accomplished your goals
and fulfill that vision.
Taste the victory.
Do all of this
within the sphere,
and envision the whole process
as if it's already done.
Use the law of attraction
here at this final stage,
and get a visceral
feeling in your body
of how it feels to take
action and achieve victory.
As you come out of
the meditation state,
write or mind map
everything out.
Schedule steps out
into your calendar,
and start taking
those action steps.
At its core essence, the four
worlds are really simple--
idea, thought, plan, action.
This is how our mind
works, or at least
that's how it's
supposed to work.
This is how all things
become manifested.
And what I've shared
here is just one example
of how we work with the
four worlds in Kabbalah
to master this process
of manifestation.
Now, of course, there
are more methods
we learned through Kabbalah,
but this is a good foundation
to start with.
The more advanced
forms of meditation
invoke certain
divine names of power
to support us with
the creative process,
but these are things that
should be handed down directly
through in-person training.
These tools help us to
access higher energies
in a powerful way
not just to create
from our own mind and
our own abilities,
but also to co-create
with spirit,
to engage the archetypal
forces in a way that's
magical and powerful
so we can create
something that's better than
what we could have imagined.
How so?
When we're co-creating with
spirit, what we can accomplish
seems almost miraculous.
It defies logic and what
we think is possible.
And to access real
magic, we first
need to learn how to
harness our mind better.
These tools I've
shared with you here
will help you do just that.
They help bring our minds to
a more multi-dimensional way
of thinking.
They also help organize
our mind and provide us
with the right
keys for creation.
If everything in our
blueprints, mind and soul,
was working in clear
and perfect order,
then our manifestation
process would just
be an automatic flow.
It would be effortless,
and we'd automatically
be manifesting in a clear way.
The light would flow
through unimpeded.
Manifestation should
become that easy,
but it's not easy because
we have distortions, blocks,
or cracks in our pattern
of the Tree of Life.
These take us from a pure
state into what we have today,
and it's what's getting in the
way of creating a world that's
aligned with divine will.
So the other thing we do
in the Kabbalistic process
to gain greater mastery
is to clear all of this
up, to repair our
vessels, and restore
the pattern of our Tree of
Life to its original integrity.
And we can accelerate
this process
by ascending the Tree
of Life, ascending
from where we're at in the
physical matrix way of life
up to reclaiming our divinity.
Join me again as we delve
into the process of ascending
the tree of life and the
journey of reclaiming
our full potential.
I'm Dr. Theresa Bullard.
Thank you for exploring the
mysteries of manifestation
with me in this episode
of "Mystery Teachings."
[MUSIC PLAYING]